ATTENDANCE POLICY
The University expects regular attendance from its registered students. A course instructor
should ensure that all students present in his or her class are indeed registered in the course.
Two basic rules apply to all excused absences, whether the excuse is permitted by NDU policy
or at a course instructor’s discretion:
• Students must still meet all course requirements; and
• The course instructor must offer students reasonable assistance in making up
missed work, only if the excused absence has been justified.
Scope of Policy
Full participation in classes, laboratory sessions, and examinations is expected of all
students.
The course instructor should keep a record of attendance throughout the semester,
detailing the attendance policy, including procedures for submitting approved excuses
and scheduling makeup work, in their syllabus, distributed on the first day of classes.
A student may be asked to provide documentation, validated by the SAO, for multiple
consecutive absences.
The student is responsible for the material presented during their absence. The maximum
number of absences for classes that meet on MWF is 6 and for those that meet on TTH
and in Summer is 4, (or 2 hours per credit course). Any student whose absences exceed
the maximum limit shall automatically be unofficially withdrawn from the course unless
he or she formally withdraws.
Range of Excused Absences
Students shall receive excused absences for a reasonable number of anticipated
absences as well as for emergencies. Excuses for absences must be validated by the
Office of Student Affairs (SAO), and cleared by the relevant course instructor.
University Closure
University closure due to unanticipated events may occur. Students may be required to
complete missed coursework in the case of such class cancellation. A faculty member
requiring a mandatory make-up session, however, may not penalize students if they are
unable to attend due to time conflicts or other reasons.
Drop for Non-Attendance
Students are not automatically dropped from a course if the allowed number of absences
is exceeded. They must themselves officially drop the course(s) by the set deadline in the
academic calendar; otherwise, a “UW” grade will be issued.