ACADEMIC STANDING
There are four kinds of academic standing for an undergraduate student at NDU:
1. Good Academic Standing
An undergraduate student is deemed in good academic standing if his or her cumulative
GPA satisfies any of the following cases:
Cumulative GPA # of Attended Undergraduate Credits
At least 1.5/4.0 1 cr. - 12 cr.
At least 1.75/4.0 13 cr. - 24 cr.
At least 2.0/4.0 25 cr. or more
2. Academic Probation
An undergraduate student will be placed on academic probation if his/ her cumulative GPA
is less than the indicated threshold in the Good Academic Standing table shown above.
3. Academic Suspension
An undergraduate student placed on academic probation for three consecutive semesters
will be placed on academic suspension, with the third probation acting as the suspension,
irrespective of whether or not he or she is registered. The student will be granted one
more semester for the removal of suspension.
30.6
14 ≅ 2.19
If at the end of the semester the student still fails to remove the suspension, he or she
may consider the following options:
1. The student may submit an e-petition to reconsider the suspension decision. The decision
taken will determine the student’s final status depending on the GPA obtained:
• The suspension may be withheld if the cumulative GPA is between 1.80 and 1.99.
The student is then given another semester to be in good academic standing.
• If the cumulative GPA is 1.79 or lower, the student will be placed on academic
suspension in their Faculty; however, they may register in another Faculty at NDU
following the required procedure. The student may apply for reinstatement if,
after spending a minimum of one semester in another Faculty, he or she obtains
a cumulative GPA of at least 2.0/4.0, and a general average greater than 2.0/4.0
on at least 12 credits of courses relevant to the major (according to the Faculty
requirements).
OR
2. The student may register, upon the written approval of their academic advisor and
Department Chairperson, in a number of courses at other recognized institutions of
higher education. If after spending a minimum of one semester at other institutions,
a satisfactory general average of at least 2.0/4.0 on at least 12 credits of courses
relevant to the major (according to the Faculty requirements) is achieved, the student
may apply to be reinstated at his or her Faculty. The credits for the courses completed
with a grade of “C” or above may be transferred towards the requirements of their
degree at NDU. However, these grades will not be counted towards the GPA.
4. Academic Dismissal
An undergraduate student is dismissed from the Faculty if he or she fails to maintain a
good academic standing either during the semester immediately following reinstatement
from academic suspension or fails to maintain a regular status after having received
permission from the Faculty Dean to have the suspension removed.