GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR MINORS AT NDU
Number of Credits for Minors
A minor shall consist of 15 cr. to 18 cr. A minor may not include more than 2 courses,
which are counted in the student’s “Major Requirements” category.
Eligibility for Minors
Only enrolled students at NDU and in Junior Standing and above can declare minors.
Declaring Minors
A student wishing to declare a minor should do so through an appropriate request form
submitted to the Department or Faculty concerned offering the minor. Approval by the
latter is required prior to registration.
Contract Sheets and Advisors for Minors
Each minor has a separate Contract Sheet specified and supplied by the Department or
Faculty offering the minor. Students declaring a minor must follow the corresponding
Contract Sheet with the assistance of an Academic Advisor, preferably the same
person advising the student in his or her major. The student and his or her advisor are
recommended to closely communicate with an advisor from the chosen minor. All
Academic Advisors in the University should be aware of the different minors offered
across the University so that they can assist their advisees toward a specific minor.
Pursuing More than One Minor
Students are allowed to satisfy the requirements for a maximum of 2 minors, provided
that they do not pursue more than 1 minor at a time. Accordingly, declaring an additional
minor is conditional either to the successful satisfaction of the requirements of an already
declared minor or to the official withdrawal from a current minor.
Withdrawing from Minors
A student is allowed to officially withdraw from a declared minor no more than twice.
Students on Probation
Students on probation cannot declare minors.
Passing Grades and GPAs for Minors
The passing grade for a minor shall be specified by the Department or Faculty offering the
minor, provided that the acceptable overall GPA for any successfully completed minor is
not below 2.0.
Overall GPA
A student, with or without a declared minor, shall have one, and only one, overall
GPA, including every course taken. A separately calculated GPA for the minor shall be
considered by the Registrar for the sole aim of judging the successful fulfillment of the
requirements for that minor.
Minor Courses and Graduate Studies
If any, a student applying for graduate studies is allowed to use earned minor credits as
remedial credits upon the approval of the Faculty concerned.
Graduation and Minors
A registered student pursuing a major degree with a declared minor is allowed to
graduate when the requirements of both the major degree and the minor are satisfied.
Recognition of Minors by the University
The University shall recognize only a completed minor, and solely by a specific
acknowledgement of the completion of a minor on the student’s transcript of records and,
upon the student’s request, by an official statement from the Registrar. The University
does not issue any diploma or certificate recognizing the completion of a minor.
Additional Requirements
Within the previously mentioned rules that give the general guidelines for all minors,
Departments and Faculties have the right to state additional requirements for their
minors, as they deem necessary.