SELF-DESIGNED INTERDISCIPLINARY MINORS
NDU aims to provide the students with the programs they need for their future and offers
them the opportunity to design their own Self-Designed Interdisciplinary Minors program.
Students who would like to explore this option have to fill in the minor proposal with the
collaboration of the Faculties and Office of the Registrar.
The Following guidelines, rules and regulations apply for proposing a Self-Designed
Interdisciplinary Minor:
PROPOSAL GUIDELINES FOR SELF-DESIGNED MINORS
1. The student should choose a title and develop a rationale for the minor with
his or her academic advisor in consultation with one Advisor from each Department
that best represents the topic of the proposed Self-Designed Minor.
2. The rationale should reflect how this Self-Designed Minor creates an intellectually
coherent and focused course of study.
3. An application form with the rationale should be presented to an ad-hoc committee
comprising Chairpersons and Deans of the concerned minor. The ad hoc committee
is formed upon the request of the Dean of the student’s Faculty.
4. The ad hoc committee will invite the student and his or her advisor to a meeting
where the Self-Designed Minor would be presented and discussed, upon which
the committee may request modifications as required and recommend approving
or rejecting the proposal.
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SELF-DESIGNED MINORS
1. The minor should be substantially different from all existing minors (less than 50%
of overlap).
2. The minor should have between 15 - 21 cr.
3. A maximum of 6 credits from courses designated in the Self-Designed Minor may
be completed prior to the approval of the Self-Designed Minor.
4. A maximum of two 200 level courses designated in the Self-Designed Minor may
be taken in the minor to allow the student to have enough in-depth knowledge of
the subjects of study.
5. The same rules and regulations currently applied to NDU minors will be applied to
the Self-Designed Minors in terms of GPA requirements, declaration time, as well
as the number of substituted credits from the student’s major or LAC courses.
6. A certificate would be issued upon graduation confirming the completion of the
minor studied.
7. The Advisor should follow up with the student on a semester basis.
8. The Self-Designed Minor/Contract Sheet is binding to the list of courses; the
student may substitute a course in the minor through a petition to the ad hoc
committee in case one course is not offered during the student’s course of study.