OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR
The Office of the Registrar is charged with keeping academic records at Notre Dame
University-Louaize (NDU). The Registrar, who is entrusted with the confidentiality and
integrity of students’ records, manages this Office. As the guardian of the academic rules
and regulations, the Office of the Registrar provides students and academic units with all
services related to those records.
ACADEMIC RULES AND REGULATIONS (UNDERGRADUATE)
STUDENT CLASSES
Students attending NDU who are not yet considered to be at the university level are
classified as follows:
a.1. Remedial/Intensive 0 credits
Number of Credits Completed on courses at
the 100 level and below the 200 level
a.2. Freshman Class 1 - 30 credits
 Number of Credits Completed on courses at
the 100 level and below the 200 level
Classification of Degree Students
Number of Credits Completed on courses of the 200 level or higher in
addition to 30 credits given on admission for students who hold the
Lebanese Baccalaureate II
Sophomore (1st year) 30 - 59 credits
Junior (2nd year) 60 - 89 credits
Senior (3rd year) 90 - 119 credits
4th year 120 - 149 credits
5th year 150 credits and above.
FULL-TIME STUDENTS
Full-time undergraduate degree students are those who register for at least 12 credits
during the Fall or Spring semesters.
PART-TIME STUDENTS
Part-time undergraduate degree students are those who register for less than 12 credits
during the Fall or Spring semesters. A part-time student does not qualify for financial
assistance.
SPECIAL STUDENTS OR NON-DEGREE STUDENTS
Undergraduate students who are taking courses at NDU for credits but not working toward
a degree are considered “Special Students” or “Non-Degree Students.” Non-Degree
Students shall be accepted on a semester-to-semester basis. Initial applications shall be
made through the Office of Admissions and thereafter through the Office of the Registrar.
Such students shall meet the academic standards required of degree students and shall be
permitted neither to audit courses nor be qualified for any category of financial aid.
TRANSFER STUDENTS
Credits transferred from institutions of higher education that are recognized by the
Lebanese Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE) are accepted provided that
the Department and Faculty concerned ensure that the credits accepted are applicable to
the corresponding degree program. The accepted credit, however, does not count toward
the student’s GPA at NDU. The criteria established by NDU regarding this policy are made
available to students through the University website and Catalog.
Depending on the Faculty, a transfer student is required to complete at least 50% of the
degree requirements at NDU in order to be eligible for a degree, while the remainder of
the credits that are taken at other institutions of higher education can be transferred if
they satisfy the criteria of the Department and Faculty concerned.
For the Architecture and FE students, a maximum of 20 credits of major courses may
be transferred as per MEHE decision and NDU rules and regulations. In addition to LAC
deemed “equivalent” to those required at NDU.
Students must fulfill a minimum residency requirement of 125 credits.
UNDERGRADUATE FRESHMAN TRANSFER POLICY
Credits transferred from institutions of higher education that are recognized by the
Lebanese Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE) are accepted provided that
the Department and Faculty concerned to ensure that these credits are applicable to the
corresponding freshman program at NDU. The criteria established by NDU regarding this
policy are made available to students through the University website and Catalog.
STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM
An exchange program is a unique feature of international universities wherein a student
may apply for a site transfer in any of the universities with which NDU shares an
academic collaboration or exchange agreement. The student exchange program is a
program coordinated by the Office of International Relations (OIR), a unit that reports to
the Vice President for Academic Affairs (VPAA). The objective of the student exchange
program is to promote international attentiveness and construct effective partnerships
with established universities and educational institutions. A student exchange program
will provide academic and intellectual benefit through the exchange of students between
NDU and respective institutions that are party to a formal Exchange Agreement or a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)/Cooperation.
• OUTGOING EXCHANGE STUDENTS
NDU exchange students will be considered “outgoing students.” This does not mean,
however, that they are no longer NDU students. No matter how long the exchange
program may last, outgoing students will not receive a degree from the host
institution; they must return to NDU to receive their degree. That being said, outgoing
students must fulfill a set of requirements and complete an application to be eligible
for the student exchange program.
• INCOMING EXCHANGE STUDENTS
Who can be an incoming exchange student?
- Students who wish to study part of their degree at NDU and take all credits
achieved to their Home Institution; and

- Any student registered in a university that has a formal agreement with NDU which
explicitly covers student exchange.
CREDIT TRANSFER FOR EXCHANGE STUDENTS
The Office of International Relations (OIR) at NDU will work with the student to negotiate a
suitable program, with credits transferable to his or her Home Institution. The student will
need to work hard on this part of the process at his or her Home Institution but should not
expect to have it completely finished until he or she is back at NDU.
When the student finishes his or her study in the student exchange program at NDU,
the student will be issued an official transcript of the courses completed and the grades
achieved. It is, however, the student’s responsibility to obtain his or her transcript. Therefore,
follow-up on the attainment of the transcript of grades is the student’s responsibility.
AUDITORS
An auditor is a student who has been admitted to the course(s) after having satisfied the
requirements for admission to this course as deemed appropriate by the Department
concerned. He or she is required to pay 75% of the course(s) fees. Once an auditor is
registered, he or she cannot change his or her status back to credit. Grades and credits will
not be given for auditing course(s) and hence cannot be counted for financial aid purposes.
However, they are entitled to a statement of enrollment upon request.
HOURS OF CLASSES
Usually, classes are held Monday through Friday. Some classes, however, may be
exceptionally held on Saturdays to make up for missed sessions or to schedule exams.
During regular semesters, classes start at 8:00 a.m. and end at 9:00 p.m., with some 4-credit
courses starting at 7:30 a.m. instead. During the Summer session, classes start at 8:00 a.m.
ATTENDANCE POLICY
The University expects regular attendance from its registered students. A course instructor
should ensure that all students present in his or her class are indeed registered in the course.
Two basic rules apply to all excused absences, whether the excuse is permitted by NDU policy
or at a course instructor’s discretion:
• Students must still meet all course requirements; and
• The course instructor must offer students reasonable assistance in making up
missed work, only if the excused absence has been justified.
Scope of Policy
Full participation in classes, laboratory sessions, and examinations is expected of all
students.
The course instructor should keep a record of attendance throughout the semester,
detailing the attendance policy, including procedures for submitting approved excuses
and scheduling makeup work, in their syllabus, distributed on the first day of classes.
A student may be asked to provide documentation, validated by the SAO, for multiple
consecutive absences.
The student is responsible for the material presented during their absence. The maximum
number of absences for classes that meet on MWF is 6 and for those that meet on TTH
and in Summer is 4, (or 2 hours per credit course). Any student whose absences exceed
the maximum limit shall automatically be unofficially withdrawn from the course unless
he or she formally withdraws.
Range of Excused Absences
Students shall receive excused absences for a reasonable number of anticipated
absences as well as for emergencies. Excuses for absences must be validated by the
Office of Student Affairs (SAO), and cleared by the relevant course instructor.
University Closure
University closure due to unanticipated events may occur. Students may be required to
complete missed coursework in the case of such class cancellation. A faculty member
requiring a mandatory make-up session, however, may not penalize students if they are
unable to attend due to time conflicts or other reasons.
Drop for Non-Attendance
Students are not automatically dropped from a course if the allowed number of absences
is exceeded. They must themselves officially drop the course(s) by the set deadline in the
academic calendar; otherwise, a “UW” grade will be issued.
EXAMINATIONS AND QUIZZES
All courses normally have written final examinations. Such examinations are not required
in seminars, field work, internship programs, studio courses, and senior projects, but
instructors may choose to give one.
Instructors must give a minimum of 2 quizzes and progress tests per course. If a student
misses a quiz for a legitimate reason acceptable to the instructor, he or she should
arrange for a make-up with the instructor within a maximum period of 2 weeks from the
date of the quiz.
Final examinations shall count for a maximum of 40% of the final grade. Those exams
should be comprehensive by nature. The remaining 60% account for quizzes, progress
projects, tests, term papers, and other requirements, as specified by the respective
Department. A minimum of 40% of the course evaluation should be known by students
prior to the official withdrawal deadline.
Different sections of the same course must be given a common departmental final examination.
FINAL EXAMINATION MAKE-UP
If a student misses a final examination for a legitimate reason, he or she will receive an
incomplete grade, designated “I”. The student shall arrange for a make-up examination with
the course instructor. Once a date is agreed upon, the student shall pay the University a
make-up final examination fee. Consequently, the make-up final examination shall be taken
no later than the 8th week of the following academic semester. In the case where a change
of grade is not received by the Office of the Registrar within the set period, a grade of “F”
shall be given for that course.
GRADED FINAL EXAMINATION PAPER
The graded final examination papers of a course offered during a given semester or the
Summer session must be submitted to the Department Chairperson concerned within 72
hours from the scheduled date of the final examination of that course. These papers must
be kept at the Department concerned for at least 1 semester along with a copy of the
course syllabus, final examination, and its solution.
FINAL GRADES
A course’s final grades should be submitted to the Office of the Registrar within three
working days, or 72 hours, after the scheduled date of the examination for that course.
The instructor should submit the final grades online to the Department Chairperson, who
will in turn submit the grades to the Dean of the respective Faculty for final approval.
TRANSCRIPTS
Upon request, students can obtain an official transcript or a student copy transcript from
the Office of the Registrar within 2 working days upon submitting a signed request form.
Transcripts cannot be issued to students who have a financial account pending with the
University.
CHANGE OF GRADE
Once a student’s grade for a course is reported by the Faculty and submitted by the Dean,
it shall be final in the absence of justified circumstances. Under justifiable circumstances,
to change a grade, the course instructor is required to fill out and sign a “Change of Grade
Form.” All supporting documents should be attached to the form. Once the Department
Chairperson approves the new grade, it is forwarded to the Faculty Dean for final action
and then resubmitted to the Office of the Registrar for processing, all within five working
days.
Only under force majeure would a student’s case be considered beyond those five
working days. In this event, the student may submit an e-petition for re-evaluation of his
or her final grade in a particular course.
No case will be considered after a lapse of one semester.
CHANGE OF PROVISIONAL GRADE
Changes made to the provisional grades “I” and “PR” should be done within an allotted period;
otherwise, the Office of the Registrar will directly convert the grade to “F.” The “I” grade must
be changed by the end of the 8th week of the following semester and the “PR” grade must be
changed by the end of the following semester and/or within the specified deadline.
GRADES FOR REPEATED COURSES
Students must repeat courses for which they got a grade of “F,” “UW,” or those courses
for which they did not get the required passing grade set by the relevant Department or
Faculty, in the case where these courses are required in the major. Students must repeat
these courses immediately the next time they are offered. For a repeated course, the
highest grade will be computed into the GPA. The other grades are kept on the student’s
transcript. A course may be repeated only twice. The letter “R” will be placed on the
student’s transcript next to the course being repeated.
GRADES UPON CHANGE OF MAJOR
1. Upon approval of change of major, all grades on transferable or non-transferable
courses taken by a student in his or her old major/area of concentration remain part of
his or her official transcripts. Unlike the transferable grades, the non-transferable ones
are not computed in the student’s GPA for the new major and are not counted toward
the total number of credits required for graduation for the new major. A student
cannot ask for a non-transferable course to be computed back in his or her GPA.
2. The students who benefited from the above rule (#1) cannot return to their old major,
and cannot request to have their major changed again to any major, which requires a
non-transferable course grade and which was deleted from his or her GPA.
SYSTEM OF GRADES
The University uses the following system of grades. This system consists of letter grades
with their corresponding numerical ranges (i.e., percentage equivalent and the 4.0 point
maximum).
Grade Description Quality Percentage
 Point Value Equivalent
A+ Outstanding 4.0 97 - 100
A Excellent 4.0 93 - 96
A-- Very Good 3.7 89 - 92
B+ Good 3.3 85 - 88
B Good 3.0 80 - 84
B-- Good 2.7 77 - 79
C+ Satisfactory 2.3 73 - 76
C Satisfactory 2.0 70 - 72
C-- Passing 1.7 66 - 69
D+ Passing 1.3 63 - 65
D Lowest Passing 1.0 60 - 62
F Failure 0.0 0 - 59
UW Unofficial Withdrawal The “UW” grade is assigned by the instructor when a
registered student has never attended a class or has ceased
attending and has not submitted an official course withdrawal
request to the Office of the Registrar. This grade is computed
as an “F” grade in the GPA.

W Official Withdrawal The “W” grade indicates withdrawal without academic
penalty. This grade is issued by the Office of the Registrar only
to students submitting an official course withdrawal form by
the scheduled deadline. The grade “W” is not computed in the
student’s GPA and may not be changed to any other grade
under any circumstances.

PR Progress, Re-enroll The “PR” grade is a provisional grade, and hence it is not
computed in the student’s GPA. It is used to reflect progress
on continuing research efforts for the senior study, or the
senior research, or design project or internship course until it
is completed a grade of “PR” could remain on the student
transcript two consecutive regular semesters, after which a
different grade should be assigned. Otherwise, the “PR”
grade will automatically turn into “F”.

U Audit The “U” grade indicates that the individual was an auditor
or listener in the course. This does not have any quality point
value, credits nor a written statement can be given for a class
audited, and no instructor is authorized to admit anyone as an
auditor to any of his or her classes unless the individual has
registered as such.

I Incomplete The “I” grade is a provisional grade, and hence it is not
computed in the student’s GPA. It indicates that the student
has for good and justified reasons not completed all course
requirements, but there is a reasonable expectation that he/
she will successfully complete it. If this provisional grade is
unresolved by the end of the 8th week of the following
semester, the Office of the Registrar will automatically
 convert it to the grade of “F.” The grade will then be computed
in the student’s GPA. However, students who are out of
attendance in the semester following the one in which the
course was taken have one year to complete the work.
Degree candidates should be aware that an “I” grade
received during the last semester in any of the courses
required for graduation will automatically result in the
postponement of graduation.

P Pass “P” indicates a passing performance in a course taken in a
Pass/No Pass. The credits, if any will be added to the number
of credits passed, but will not be included in the average. It
has no quality points.
NP No Pass “NP” indicates a failing performance in courses taken on a
Pass/No Pass basis. No credits will be added to the student’s
record, nor will the average will be affected. It has no quality
points.
GRADE POINT AVERAGE
The Grade point average (GPA) or index is the ratio of the total quality point values divided
by the number of the credit hours attempted by the student, as shown below.
Course Number Grade Credit Hours Quality Point Total Quality
& Designation Earned Attempted Values Point Values
ARB 211 B+ 3 × 3.3 = 9.9
MGT 425 A 4 × 4 = 16
HUT 305 D 3 × 1 = 3
MAT 215 F 3 × 0 = 0
CSC 200 C- 1 × 1.7 = 1.7
14 30.6
The GPA of the five courses would then be:
which is equivalent to a grade of “C.” Students are expected to know how to compute
their own GPA. Courses with a grade of “W,” “U,” “PR,” or “I” are not counted in
computing the cumulative GPA. The same applies to all transfer courses. Hence, grades
for work done at institutions other than NDU are not included in the GPA. Only courses
and credits may be transferred. Thus, the cumulative GPA is an average of all the credit
hours attempted by the student at NDU.
ACADEMIC STANDING
There are four kinds of academic standing for an undergraduate student at NDU:
1. Good Academic Standing
An undergraduate student is deemed in good academic standing if his or her cumulative
GPA satisfies any of the following cases:
Cumulative GPA # of Attended Undergraduate Credits
At least 1.5/4.0 1 cr. - 12 cr.
At least 1.75/4.0 13 cr. - 24 cr.
At least 2.0/4.0 25 cr. or more
2. Academic Probation
An undergraduate student will be placed on academic probation if his/ her cumulative GPA
is less than the indicated threshold in the Good Academic Standing table shown above.
3. Academic Suspension
An undergraduate student placed on academic probation for three consecutive semesters
will be placed on academic suspension, with the third probation acting as the suspension,
irrespective of whether or not he or she is registered. The student will be granted one
more semester for the removal of suspension.
30.6
14 ≅ 2.19
If at the end of the semester the student still fails to remove the suspension, he or she
may consider the following options:
1. The student may submit an e-petition to reconsider the suspension decision. The decision
taken will determine the student’s final status depending on the GPA obtained:
• The suspension may be withheld if the cumulative GPA is between 1.80 and 1.99.
The student is then given another semester to be in good academic standing.
• If the cumulative GPA is 1.79 or lower, the student will be placed on academic
suspension in their Faculty; however, they may register in another Faculty at NDU
following the required procedure. The student may apply for reinstatement if,
after spending a minimum of one semester in another Faculty, he or she obtains
a cumulative GPA of at least 2.0/4.0, and a general average greater than 2.0/4.0
on at least 12 credits of courses relevant to the major (according to the Faculty
requirements).
OR
2. The student may register, upon the written approval of their academic advisor and
Department Chairperson, in a number of courses at other recognized institutions of
higher education. If after spending a minimum of one semester at other institutions,
a satisfactory general average of at least 2.0/4.0 on at least 12 credits of courses
relevant to the major (according to the Faculty requirements) is achieved, the student
may apply to be reinstated at his or her Faculty. The credits for the courses completed
with a grade of “C” or above may be transferred towards the requirements of their
degree at NDU. However, these grades will not be counted towards the GPA.
4. Academic Dismissal
An undergraduate student is dismissed from the Faculty if he or she fails to maintain a
good academic standing either during the semester immediately following reinstatement
from academic suspension or fails to maintain a regular status after having received
permission from the Faculty Dean to have the suspension removed.
ACADEMIC RECOGNITION
There are two kinds of academic recognition:
1. Dean’s Honor List:
Full-time students who obtain a semester GPA of 3.20/4.00 or higher with no incomplete
grades during a given semester are placed on the Dean’s List for that semester. These
students are invited to attend the Dean’s Luncheon held in their honor.
2. Graduation with Distinction:
An undergraduate student with high academic achievement will graduate with:
• Cum Laude (Distinction), if the cumulative GPA falls between 3.20/4.0 and
 3.49/4.0;
• Magna Cum Laude (High Distinction), if the cumulative GPA falls between
 3.50/4.0 and 3.79/4.0; and
• Summa Cum Laude (Highest Distinction), if the cumulative GPA is 3.80/4.0 or above.
Such distinctions appear on the student’s transcript and degree. A transfer undergraduate
student is only eligible for these distinctions if he or she has completed at least 50% of
degree requirements.
ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT
Academic misconduct is any action or attempted action that may result in creating an
unfair academic advantage for oneself or an unfair academic advantage or disadvantage for
any other member or members of the academic community.
Any academic misconduct is directly referred to the concerned Faculty/Chairperson/
Dean. The Dean of Students may assist if asked in the investigation and/or information
gathering. The academic misconduct may include: cheating and assisting in cheating,
plagiarism, class disruption, and academic dishonesty (e.g., stealing or damaging library
books, unlawfully copying computer software, violating program and degree requirements
established by the University, etc.), per the Student Code of Conduct: https://www.ndu.
edu.lb/Library/Assets/Files/Documents/Policies/Student%20Code%20of%20Conduct.pdf
CHANGE OF MAJOR
1. Within a Faculty
To be eligible for a change of major within the same faculty, the student must meet the
requirements for admission to the new major. He or she must submit an e- petition for
a change of major. The request for the student’s admission is considered by the new
Department and by the Dean concerned.
• New students are eligible to change major upon the completion of their first semester.
2. To a Different Faculty
A student moving into another Faculty within the University is considered a new student
by the new Faculty. The student is required to fill in an e- petition for a change of major.
3. By University Action
A student may be asked to change his or her major for any of the following reasons:
• If he or she is on probation and fails at the end of a semester or Summer session in
two or more of his or her major and/or core courses; and
• If he or she fails to pass a major course after having repeated it twice.
GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
Degree Requirements
Students are required to fulfill the following requirements in order to be eligible for a
Bachelor’s degree:
• Completing all required credits for the degree;
• Fulfilling satisfactorily all course requirements for the degree as well as remedial/
intensive courses given upon admission;
• Fulfilling all other admission requirements;
• Satisfying the residency requirements for the degree;
• Maintaining the required minimum cumulative GPA for the major and core
courses required for the degree, as specified by the Department concerned;
• Maintaining good academic discipline; and
• Settling all accounts with the University.
These conditions must be met together with the degree requirements in effect during
the semester of the student’s first registration at NDU. This shall also apply to reinstated
students. Readmitted students, however, must meet the degree requirements in effect
during the semester of their readmission, unless their readmission letter states otherwise.
Students who do not have the required cumulative GPA of 2.0/4.0 for the degree and/or
the required cumulative GPA for the major and core courses required for the degree, but
have completed all other requirements, may repeat up to 5 courses, as approved by the
academic advisor, to meet the required numerical level(s).
Diplomas are only issued once.
Second Degree Requirements
A student with a Bachelor’s degree may register for another degree at NDU after being
accepted by the University. Such a student must:
• Satisfy all the MEHE and program requirements of the new degree;
• Satisfy all the requirements for the new degree in accordance with the statements
of Section I of this policy;
• Have a residency of at least 50% of the regular residency requirements of the
concerned program;
• Complete at least 50% of the second degree requirements including LAC and free
elective courses; and
• Architecture and FE Students must fulfill a minimum residency requirement of 125
credits with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0/4.00.
TEACHING DIPLOMA REQUIREMENTS
A holder of the official Lebanese Baccalaureate Part II or its equivalent will be eligible for
a Teaching Diploma upon completing satisfactorily at least 21 credits beyond his or her
Bachelor’s degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.0/4.0
CONFERRING OF DEGREES
Degrees are conferred three times a year, at the end of Fall, Spring, or Summer session.
Students expecting to graduate must fill in the online exit survey and application for
Graduation on SIS as per announced deadlines.
Students should check their graduation clearance on their SIS at the end of their last
semester.
Any delay in submitting the application may delay graduation.
REPLACEMENT DIPLOMA
NDU will provide a replacement diploma in situations where the original is lost or
destroyed. The replacement diploma must be ordered online and/or in person by filling
a form available at the Office of the Registrar. An “Authorization Form” is required to be
filled if the graduate wants someone else to pick up the replacement diploma on his or
her behalf. Each replacement diploma follows the current diploma format and includes
a notation stating that the diploma is a replacement of the original. The replacement
diploma will bear the date of its preparation and will annotate the date of the lost/
destroyed original. All replacement diplomas bear the signatures of the current
University President, Faculty Dean, and Registrar.
RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
Residency Requirements for Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Business
Administration, and Bachelor of Hotel Management
There are two kinds of Government Regulations for the BA, BS, BA, BHM:
1. Minimum Residency: A minimum of 8 semesters of residency is required,
beginning with the Freshman Class, or 6 semesters beginning with the
Sophomore Class. Two Summer sessions are equivalent to one regular semester.
This period of time must be spent at a recognized and accredited institution
of higher education; however, at least 50% of the credits requirement must
be completed at NDU with a cumulative GPA of 2.0/4.0, in addition to all other
graduation requirements for the degree.
2. Maximum Residency: A maximum of 16 semesters of residency is allowed,
beginning with the Freshman Class, and 12 semesters, beginning with the
Sophomore Class.
Residency Requirements for the Bachelor of Engineering
A minimum of 10 semesters and a maximum of 20 semesters, in addition to all
requirements listed under the Office of Admissions.
Residency Requirements for the Bachelor of Architecture
A minimum of 10 semesters and a maximum of 20 semesters, in addition to all
requirements listed under the Office of Admissions.
Residency Requirements for the Bachelor of Law
1. A minimum of 8 semesters and a maximum of 16 semesters.
2. At least the last 50 % of the degree requirements must be completed at NDU in
addition to all other graduation requirements for the degree.
PARTICIPATION IN COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
The University encourages all graduates to participate in the Commencement exercises.
COURSE DESIGNATION
A. Designation and Belonging
The letters preceding the course number indicate the area or subject of study to which
the course belongs. The following is a designation list grouped by Department and Faculty
affiliations.
Ramez G. Chagoury Faculty of Architecture, Arts and Design (RC-FAAD)
Department of Architecture
ARP - Architecture
MAR - Architecture
Department of Design
IDP - Interior Design
GDP - Graphic Design
FTP - Fashion Design
FDP - Design
PDP - Photography
MAD - Design
FAP - Studio Arts
Department of Music
MUJ - Jazz Music
MUM - Musimedialogy
MUS - Musicology
Faculty of Business Administration and Economics (FBAE)
Department of Accounting and Finance
ACO - Accounting
BAF - Banking and Finance
FEN - Financial Engineering
Department of Economics
ECN - Economics
Department of Management and Marketing
MGT - Management
HCM - Health Care Management*
MRK - Marketing
HRM - Human Resource Management
ENT - Entrepreneurship
Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management
FBM - Food and Beverage Management
TTM - Travel and Tourism Management
HTM - Hospitality Management
HVM - Hospitality Events Management
Graduate Division
FIN
- Finance
QMT
- Quantitative Methods
BUS
- Business
HRM
- Human Resources
MBS
- Business Strategy
MGT
- Management
MRK
- Marketing
ECN
- Economics
ACO
- Accounting
FRM
- Financial Risk Management
PRM
- Project Management
Faculty of Engineering (FE)
ENG
- General Engineering
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
CEN
- Civil Engineering
PEN
- Petroleum Engineering
Departments of Electrical and Computer and Communication Engineering
EEN
- Electrical Engineering and Computer and Communication Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
CHE
- Chemical Engineering
MEN
- Mechanical Engineering
Faculty of Humanities (FH)
Department of English and Translation
ARB
- Arabic
CHI
- Chinese
ENL
- English
FRC
- French
GEM
- German
INT
- Interpretation
ITL
- Italian
LIR
- Literature
LTN
- Latin
POR
- Portuguese
ROC
- Romance Languages
SPA
- Spanish
SYR
- Syriac
TRA
- Translation
Department of Media Studies
ADM
- Advertising
AVF
- Audio Visual and Films
COA
- Communication Arts
JOU
- Journalism
Department of Psychology, Education, and Physical Education
EDU
- Education
PES
- Physical Education
PSL
- Psychology
Department of Religious, Cultural, and Philosophical Studies
PHL
- Philosophy
REG
- Religion
SOL
- Sociology
Faculty of Law and Political Science (FLPS)
Department of Government and International Relations
IAF
- International Affairs and Diplomacy
INL
- International Law
PAD
- Public Administration
AMS
- American Studies
EMS
- Euro-Mediterranean Studies
HIT
- History
NGO
- Non-Governmental Organization
POS
- Political Science
Department of Law
LAW
- Law
Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences (FNAS)
Department of Computer Science
CSC
- Computer Science
GIS
- Geographic Information Systems
MIS
- Management Information Systems
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
ACS
- Actuarial Sciences
FMA
- Financial Mathematics
MAT
- Mathematics
STA
- Statistics
Department of Physics and Astronomy
AST
- Astronomy
PHS
- Physics
Department of Sciences
BIO
- Biology
CHM
- Chemistry
ENS
- Environmental Science
GEO
- Geology
Faculty of Nursing and Health Sciences (FNHS)
NHS
- Nursing and Health Sciences
NUR
- Nursing
HEA
- Health
MLT
- Medical Laboratory Technology
NTR
- Nutrition and Dietetics
FQM
- Food Safety and Quality Management
B. Digits of a Course Number
The following digits are used as follows:
First Digit FNAS, FNHS, FBAE, and FH ENG, RCT, VIA
0 Non-Credit Remedial Courses Year 0
1 Freshman Course Year 1
2 Sophomore Course Year 2
3 Junior Course Year 3
4 Senior Course (Undergraduate Only) Year 4
Courses that are considered preparatory for
graduate studies. When passed, their credits
5 should not be counted in the total of credits Year 5
required for graduation and they should be
completed during the first academic year.
6 or higher Graduate Course Year 6
Second Digit for Undergraduate and Possibly Graduate Courses
0 Basic Level Course
1 Elementary Level Course
2-4 Intermediate Level Course
5 Advanced Level Course
6 Special Topics or Practicum I
7 Laboratory Workshop or Practicum II
8 Seminar or Internship
9 Senior Study, Senior Project, Thesis, or Research Project
Third Digit Any digit ranging from 0 to 9
C. Course Number, Title, and Credits
MAT 215 Linear Algebra I (3.0) 3 cr.
Official Official Course Title The first component of the Number of
Course above ordered pair designates credits (cr.)
Code the number of lecture hours/week. earned if
(Number The second component is course is
Abbreviation) the number of laboratory successfully
hours/week. completed.
Lecture hours/week lasts for a period of 50 minutes.
Credits are based upon the number of 50-minute periods scheduled weekly during one
semester or Summer session. One credit signifies a minimum of either a 50-minute period
of class work, or 2-3 hours of laboratory work over a period of 15 weeks or its equivalent.
D. Course Prerequisite and Corequisite
A prerequisite is a course that must be completed before registering for the subject
course.
A corequisite is a prerequisite course that may be taken concurrently with the subject
course.
UNDERGRADUATE REGISTRATION
Upon admission and prior to registration, each student shall be assigned an Academic
Advisor. The student shall seek the Academic Advisor’s support on the following:
• Taking remedial courses (if any), as specified in the letter of acceptance;
• Meeting the Academic Advisor during office hours, and when necessary by
appointment, throughout the academic year;
• Ensuring proper fulfillment of all degree requirements;
• Reviewing his or her Contract Sheet on a regular basis throughout his or her
residency at NDU; and
• Familiarizing him/herself with the University’s academic rules, regulations, and
policies and understanding the registration process, course offerings, degree
planning, and course substitution or other related matters.
(https://www.ndu.edu.lb/about-ndu/administration/offices/registrars-office).
Students are encouraged to consult with their Academic Advisors on a regular basis
throughout their residency at NDU.
The Department of Academic Advising at the SAO is available to assist students
experiencing any academic difficulties.
REGISTRATION ELIGIBILITY
An undergraduate student will be eligible for registration upon settling all previous pending
issues (academic, financial, disciplinary, administrative, etc.) with the University at the offices
concerned. Otherwise, he or she cannot proceed any further with his or her registration.
REGISTRATION
https://www.ndu.edu.lb/about-ndu/administration/offices/registrars-office/registration/registration-dates
The registration date and time for undergraduate students is assigned by the Office of the
Registrar. To register, a student should:
• Receive on SIS tuition statement from the Business Office;
• Pay the appropriate tuition and fees to the allotted bank(s);
• Remove all the hold ( if any)
• Prepare his or her course schedule; and
• Register and confirm his or her courses.
New students should register at the office of the designated Academic Advisor.
REGISTRATION IN ABSTENTIA
An NDU undergraduate student is allowed to register in absentia (or by proxy) through
certain legally recognized individuals (i.e., parent, sibling, or the like) under justifiable
reasons, such as illness, being abroad, etc. Such students shall be entirely responsible for
any discrepancies in his or her proxy registration.
LATE REGISTRATION
Students registering during the late registration day shall are responsible for all work
assigned from the beginning of the semester or the session. They shall be also subject to
the requirements of the attendance policy as of the first day of classes.
CROSS-REGISTRATION
An NDU undergraduate student may be allowed to cross-register in a course at another
institution if:
• The course is not offered at NDU during the semester in which the student is
expected to graduate;
• The course in which the student intends to cross-register is equivalent to his or her
required course at NDU;
• The course does not conflict with his or her course schedule at NDU;
• The student has the Cross-Registration and Registration Forms signed by his or
her Department Chairperson and Academic Advisor as well as the Office of the
Registrar and the Business Office;
• The student returns the appropriate Cross-Registration form(s) to NDU’s Office of
the Registrar after officially registering at the other institution; and
• The student has to submit an official transcript of records for his or her crossregistered course to the Office of the Registrar at NDU.
A non-NDU undergraduate student may be allowed to cross-register in a course at NDU
upon submission of a written authorization from his or her institution allowing him or
her to register for this course at NDU in accordance with the University Undergraduate
Registration Policy.
EXCHANGE STUDENTS REGISTRATION
OUTGOING EXCHANGE STUDENTS
• ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
In order for the applicant to be eligible for the student exchange program, the following
criteria must be met:
a) The applicant has to have:
- A current enrollment at NDU;
- Successfully completed at least 15 credits of study;
- No record of failing a course in the program in which the applicant is enrolled;
- A minimum GPA of 2.5/4.00 (undergraduate) and 3.00/4.00 (graduate);
- Provided an academic recommendation from an appropriate faculty member
and a statement of purpose;
- A proven record that he or she is socially, psychologically, and intellectually fit for
an exchange program;
- A record of proper conduct; and
- No outstanding financial record.
b) The student is expected to be in good health. 
c) The applicant has to agree to:
- Be responsible for meeting all costs of the student exchange program, such as
travel, accommodation, and insurance, and pay all administration fees to NDU by
the due dates;
- Enroll at the Host Institution for no more than two semesters and one Summer,
unless specific circumstances require other arrangements to be made; and
- Abide by the rules and regulations of the Host Institution.
d) Where there are more applicants than places available for a given institution, eligible
students will be ranked according to academic merit and may be offered a
student exchange program at their second or third preferred institution.
• REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS
a) The NDU Registrar will register a student for courses if the student presents a
properly signed form listing the course(s) to be taken at the Host Institution (see the
attached form).
b) The student must have completed all course prerequisites.
c) All credits earned will be considered as resident credits at NDU for degree purposes.
d) At the end of the period of study at the Host Institution, no official diploma or
certificate whatsoever will be delivered to the student, but an official transcript of
records will be issued for the exclusive purpose of transfer to the Home Institution.
e) An exchange student is entitled to an enrollment statement from NDU.
• APPLICATION PROCESS
Students who wish to participate in a student exchange program are required to:
a) Complete and submit an application form with the OIR by the date specified on the
application form;
b) Agree in writing to the terms and conditions set out in the student exchange
program; and
c) Be aware that the attainment of the official transcript of grades from the Host Institution
is the student’s responsibility, and the P/NP (Pass/Not Pass) grading system is adopted.
INCOMING EXCHANGE STUDENTS
• ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Student exchange programs at NDU are short-term programs that enable international
students to study for up to two academic semesters and a Summer session (one
academic year, not renewable) in any of the NDU campuses.
• REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS
The NDU Registrar will register a student for courses if the student:
a) Presents a properly signed form listing the course(s) to be taken; and
b) Has completed all prerequisites of the courses to be taken.
All credits earned shall be considered as resident credits at NDU for degree
purposes. The registration of exchange students is valid for one academic year and
is not renewable. At the end of the period of study, no official diploma or certificate
whatsoever will be delivered to the student; only an official transcript of records will be
issued for the exclusive purpose of transfer to the Home Institution.
An exchange student is entitled to an enrollment certificate from the Home Institution.
• REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
For registration, an incoming exchange student will observe the following steps:
a) Secure an official exchange form from the Home Institution.
b) Hand in all the required documents to the Director of OIR.
c) Obtain an acceptance letter as an exchange student from the Office of Admissions.
d) Proceed to the Office of the Registrar in order to finalize registration.
e) The NDU Registrar will sign the student exchange program form. The following
copies should be distributed:
- Copy to the Host Institution;
- Copy to the Business Office;
- Copy to the Office of the Registrar;
- Copy to the OIR; and
- Copy to the student.
IMPROPER REGISTRATION
Only students officially enrolled in a class are allowed to attend the class. The instructor
of the class should inform any non-officially enrolled student of his or her improper
registration and should immediately report it, in writing, to the Office of the Registrar, and
should also ask the student to immediately proceed to the Office of the Registrar for a
settlement.
CHANGES IN REGISTRATION
Changes in registration become effective and official on the date the approved completed
form is submitted to the Office of the Registrar, accepted, and processed, and the
financial obligations resulting from these changes are settled with the Business Office.
ADDING AND/OR DROPPING COURSES
A student may add or drop a course or change a section in his or her registration schedule
during the Drop/Add day only. This can be done by:
• A student may drop or add a course(s) independently via SIS or at the office of the
Academic Advisor;
• In the Drop/Add period, two modifications are allowed by the student;
• In case a section is closed, or a student wishes to wave prerequisites/corequisites
and the like, only during Drop/Add period he or she has to fill in a Drop/Add form to
secure the signature of the Coordinator or Chairperson and or Dean concerned; and
• Receive his or her modified tuition statement from the Business Office.
WITHDRAWAL FROM COURSES
Students may withdraw any time prior to the 14th week of the Fall or Spring semesters
and before the 28th day of the Summer session upon settling all due fees. Then a grade of
“W” will be inscribed on their records.
The third withdrawal will turn to “F” for any class from which students attempt to
withdraw.
The official withdrawal is processed by initiating the electronic drop and submitted it via
SIS.
Withdrawal after the deadline will result in an “F” or “UW” in the dropped course. No
withdrawal is allowed beyond this period unless the student submit an e-petition on SIS
due to urgent reasons.
ATTENDANCE AFTER WITHDRAWING
Once a student has withdrawn from a course, he or she cannot continue to attend or
audit this course during the same semester.
STUDENT REINSTATEMENT
Upon return, a student shall inform online the Office of the Registrar for reinstatement.
DROPPING A COURSE WHILE ON PROBATION
A student on probation may drop any course during the probation period.
REGISTRATION IN A COURSE WITH AN ”I” GRADE
Students may not register in a course if he or she has an incomplete grade in its prerequisite(s).
STUDENT ACADEMIC LOAD
Full-Time and Part-Time Loads
Registration in at least 12 credits for the Fall or Spring semester constitutes a full-time
load for an undergraduate student. Otherwise, it constitutes a part-time load.
Maximum Load for Registration per Semester
The maximum load for registration during the Fall or Spring semester by any undergraduate
student is either 17 credits or the number of credits specified in his or her suggested
program for that particular semester. Students in good academic standing, however, can
take up to 19 credits per semester provided that this number of credits does not contradict
any residency requirements. Students with a cumulative GPA of 3.50 and above may
petition to register for one additional 3-credit course over and above the regular load. This
additional load may be approved provided the residency requirements are met.
The maximum load for registration for Engineering students is specified in their suggested
program.
Maximum Load for Registration in the Summer Session
The maximum load for registration by any undergraduate student in the Summer session
is 9 credits or less, as determined by the Faculty concerned.
Maximum Load for Students on Probation
Students who are on probation may register for a maximum of 13 credits per semester, of
which at least 9 credits from courses that must be repeated, if any.
Maximum Load for Students with Incomplete(s)
Students who have 2 or more incomplete grades from a previous semester or the Summer
session may register for a maximum of 15 credits per semester on the condition that the
student has good academic standing.
Maximum Load for Students with Cross-Registration
The combined load for students with both registration at NDU and cross-registration in
another institution must not exceed the maximum load stated above.
TUITION AND FEES
NDU is a non-profit institution. Tuition and fees paid by students represent a small
percentage of the full cost of a student’s education. The deficit is covered by income from
gifts, grants, and donations from foundations, alumni, and friends of the University. The
fees cover applications, membership in the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), and
the technology and student services fee. Membership of Lebanese students in the
NSSF is mandatory by law. Thus, prior to registration, students are urged to follow the
instructions given by the Office of Student Affairs, concerning clearance for the NSSF.
Undergraduate – Tuition/Credit Hour
Architecture USD 440
Business USD 395
Computer Sciences USD 440
Engineering USD 470
All others USD 380
Intensive English USD 2,880
Auditing/Credit Hour/Semester LBP 75% of credit tuition
Fees
Admission Application USD 30
Change of Major USD 60
Entrance Examination (When applicable) (for one test) USD 30
Entrance Examination (When applicable) (for two tests) USD 50
Diploma USD 60
Diploma Replacement USD 200
Incomplete/Make-up Final Examination USD 75
Late Registration USD 75
Late Payment USD 60
Medical Fees (New students) USD 60
NSSF Fees (When applicable) LBP 5,400,000
Petition USD 10
Smart ID Card USD 20
(New students and replacement cost)
Statement of Fees USD 10
Transcript (Official copy) USD 10
Transcript (Student copy) USD 5
Technology and Student Services Fee
* Fall Semester USD 450
* Spring Semester USD 450
* Summer Session USD 200
* Including Office 365, cloud space, Smart ID maintenance, medical insurance, and
Medical House services.
A student may not complete registration, graduate, or receive a transcript of record until
all fees are paid.
Refund Policy
The University makes contracts with faculty members and provisions for education
in advance for the entire year. The Tuition Refund Policy, therefore, is based on the
following:
• Students who do not confirm their registration for the Fall and Spring semesters are
charged 25% of the registered credits;
• Students who confirm their registration for the Fall and Spring semesters are not
charged any penalty on the condition that they maintain 12 undergraduate credits
and/or 3 graduate credits;
• During the Drop/Add period, 75% of the tuition is refunded;
• Tuition is nonrefundable after the Drop/Add period; and
• The refund policy applies during Summer sessions on the condition that the student
maintains 3 credits.
Financial Support for Re-enrolled courses
Students who re-enroll for any reason in any course shall not benefit from any financial
support.
These are the fees for the Academic Year 2024-2025 and are subject to change for Academic Year 2025-2026
2
As of the Fall 2024 semester, credit prices are to be paid as follows:
• 85% in cash USD
• The remaining 15% in cash LBP at the USD/LBP 15,000 exchange rate
UNDERGRADUATE ACADEMIC MINORS
RATIONALE
The objective of establishing undergraduate academic minors, hereafter called minors,
at NDU is to offer a wide, versatile, and creative spectrum of basic knowledge for
students in areas other and their major programs of study, an objective that is in line with
the American liberal arts model of higher education. Additionally, establishing minors
enhances the appeal of the Departments and Faculties in terms of allowing them to offer
relatively quick training or specialization programs to interested students.
The establishment of undergraduate academic minors is a matter that is internal to the
University and is outside the scope of governmental licensing and recognition.
The following rules and regulations do not allow students to enroll in the University for the
sole purpose of pursuing minor studies.
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR MINORS AT NDU
Number of Credits for Minors
A minor shall consist of 15 cr. to 18 cr. A minor may not include more than 2 courses,
which are counted in the student’s “Major Requirements” category.
Eligibility for Minors
Only enrolled students at NDU and in Junior Standing and above can declare minors.
Declaring Minors
A student wishing to declare a minor should do so through an appropriate request form
submitted to the Department or Faculty concerned offering the minor. Approval by the
latter is required prior to registration.
Contract Sheets and Advisors for Minors
Each minor has a separate Contract Sheet specified and supplied by the Department or
Faculty offering the minor. Students declaring a minor must follow the corresponding
Contract Sheet with the assistance of an Academic Advisor, preferably the same
person advising the student in his or her major. The student and his or her advisor are
recommended to closely communicate with an advisor from the chosen minor. All
Academic Advisors in the University should be aware of the different minors offered
across the University so that they can assist their advisees toward a specific minor.
Pursuing More than One Minor
Students are allowed to satisfy the requirements for a maximum of 2 minors, provided
that they do not pursue more than 1 minor at a time. Accordingly, declaring an additional
minor is conditional either to the successful satisfaction of the requirements of an already
declared minor or to the official withdrawal from a current minor.
Withdrawing from Minors
A student is allowed to officially withdraw from a declared minor no more than twice.
Students on Probation
Students on probation cannot declare minors.
Passing Grades and GPAs for Minors
The passing grade for a minor shall be specified by the Department or Faculty offering the
minor, provided that the acceptable overall GPA for any successfully completed minor is
not below 2.0.
Overall GPA
A student, with or without a declared minor, shall have one, and only one, overall
GPA, including every course taken. A separately calculated GPA for the minor shall be
considered by the Registrar for the sole aim of judging the successful fulfillment of the
requirements for that minor.
Minor Courses and Graduate Studies
If any, a student applying for graduate studies is allowed to use earned minor credits as
remedial credits upon the approval of the Faculty concerned.
Graduation and Minors
A registered student pursuing a major degree with a declared minor is allowed to
graduate when the requirements of both the major degree and the minor are satisfied.
Recognition of Minors by the University
The University shall recognize only a completed minor, and solely by a specific
acknowledgement of the completion of a minor on the student’s transcript of records and,
upon the student’s request, by an official statement from the Registrar. The University
does not issue any diploma or certificate recognizing the completion of a minor.
Additional Requirements
Within the previously mentioned rules that give the general guidelines for all minors,
Departments and Faculties have the right to state additional requirements for their
minors, as they deem necessary.
SELF-DESIGNED INTERDISCIPLINARY MINORS
NDU aims to provide the students with the programs they need for their future and offers
them the opportunity to design their own Self-Designed Interdisciplinary Minors program.
Students who would like to explore this option have to fill in the minor proposal with the
collaboration of the Faculties and Office of the Registrar.
The Following guidelines, rules and regulations apply for proposing a Self-Designed
Interdisciplinary Minor:
PROPOSAL GUIDELINES FOR SELF-DESIGNED MINORS
1. The student should choose a title and develop a rationale for the minor with
his or her academic advisor in consultation with one Advisor from each Department
that best represents the topic of the proposed Self-Designed Minor.
2. The rationale should reflect how this Self-Designed Minor creates an intellectually
coherent and focused course of study.
3. An application form with the rationale should be presented to an ad-hoc committee
comprising Chairpersons and Deans of the concerned minor. The ad hoc committee
is formed upon the request of the Dean of the student’s Faculty.
4. The ad hoc committee will invite the student and his or her advisor to a meeting
where the Self-Designed Minor would be presented and discussed, upon which
the committee may request modifications as required and recommend approving
or rejecting the proposal.
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SELF-DESIGNED MINORS
1. The minor should be substantially different from all existing minors (less than 50%
of overlap).
2. The minor should have between 15 - 21 cr.
3. A maximum of 6 credits from courses designated in the Self-Designed Minor may
be completed prior to the approval of the Self-Designed Minor.
4. A maximum of two 200 level courses designated in the Self-Designed Minor may
be taken in the minor to allow the student to have enough in-depth knowledge of
the subjects of study.
5. The same rules and regulations currently applied to NDU minors will be applied to
the Self-Designed Minors in terms of GPA requirements, declaration time, as well
as the number of substituted credits from the student’s major or LAC courses.
6. A certificate would be issued upon graduation confirming the completion of the
minor studied.
7. The Advisor should follow up with the student on a semester basis.
8. The Self-Designed Minor/Contract Sheet is binding to the list of courses; the
student may substitute a course in the minor through a petition to the ad hoc
committee in case one course is not offered during the student’s course of study. 
