OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS
Statement of Purpose
Notre Dame University-Louaize (NDU) is a Lebanese non-profit, private, Catholic institution of
Higher Education modeled on the American liberal arts system of higher education. Guided by
the cultural and spiritual heritage of the Maronite Order of the Blessed Virgin Mary, founded
in 1695 and a pioneer in education, NDU emphasizes promoting human dignity. The religious
affiliation of the University does not entail any sectarian obligation: applicants are granted
equal opportunity irrespective of nationality, ethnicity, gender, disability, or religious affiliation.
By promoting its academic and administrative facets and by recruiting students from local,
regional, and international provenance, the Office of Admissions aims to enhance the
universal image of NDU, an institution where all can explore the horizons of positive plurality
within a rich human spectrum. Today, the seven Faculties at NDU continue to attract students
from around the world and cater to the labor market demands of Lebanon and the region.
UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION
Applications may be filled out and paid for online at
https://sis.ndu.edu.lb/iApply or in person at the Office of Admissions.
NDU Entrance Test fees are paid online at
https://sis.ndu.edu.lb/oar or in person at the Office of Admissions.
* English Entrance Test USD 30
* Math Aptitude USD 30
Note: Students who register for both exams at the same time pay USD 50 for both tests.
All fees are non-refundable.
The following documents must be submitted with each application form:
• Officially issued secondary school grades for the last three academic years;
• A photocopy of the National Identity Card (if Lebanese) or Passport (if foreign);
• One recent passport-size photo;
• A certified copy of the Lebanese Baccalaureate Part II or its equivalence; and
• Scores of standardized external tests (TOEFL, SAT, and IELTS) if available.
Applicants who do not submit scores of standardized tests must sit for the
NDU Entrance Exams (English Entrance Test and/or Math Aptitude Test).
Freshman applicants must additionally submit:
• An officially issued attestation stating that they have completed and passed all High
School requirements or a copy of the High School Diploma signed by the school;
• A certified copy of the Freshman Authorization from the Lebanese Ministry of
Education and Higher Education; and
• Scores of SAT (upon submission of the application).
All documents become the property of NDU regardless of admissions status.
Important admission dates and deadlines for the Academic Year 2024-2025:
Semester Application Timeline

SPRING SEMESTER, 2025 October 1, 2024 - December 4, 2024

FALL SEMESTER, 2025 December 10, 2024 - July 22, 2025
Semester Application Examination Decision
Deadline (at noon) Dates Dates
SPRING SEMESTER, 2025 December 4, 2024 December 7, 2024 December 17, 2024
EARLY ADMISSION, Fall 2025 January 22, 2025 January 25, 2025 February 17, 2025
REGULAR ADMISSION I, Fall 2025 March 5 2025 March 8, 2025 March 28, 2025
REGULAR ADMISSION II, Fall 2025 May 20, 2025 May 23, 2025 June 16, 2025
REGULAR ADMISSION III, Fall 2025 July 22, 2025 July 25, 2025 August 21, 2025
Applicants may retrieve the Letter of Admission, along with the registration guidelines,
online through https://sis.ndu.edu.lb/oar using NDU ID and Candidate numbers
communicated to them by the Office of Admissions upon submitting their application
FRESHMAN ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Students who secure written authorization to pursue their higher education based
on a foreign program from the Equivalence Committee at the Lebanese Ministry of
Education and Higher Education (MEHE) may apply to join the Freshman Class. They
must hold a High School Diploma from a school recognized by the MEHE. Applicants
to the Freshman Class are required to take the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) before
registration, as required by the MEHE, to secure the equivalence of the Lebanese
Baccalaureate Part II.
Note: To receive the Lebanese Baccalaureate Part II equivalence, Freshman students must
successfully complete at least 30 credits at the Freshman level and obtain the required minimum
SAT scores of 870 for Freshman Arts and 950 for Freshman Sciences.
Students may not be considered for Sophomore standing before completing all Freshman
requirements. Some majors may require specific freshman courses, and students are invited to
check with their advisor to select the right freshman courses depending on their prospective major.
SOPHOMORE AND FIRST-YEAR ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
To be eligible for the Sophomore or First-Year Class, applicants must hold the Lebanese
Baccalaureate Part II or its equivalence, as determined by the Lebanese Ministry of
Education and Higher Education. 
Applicants must secure the composite score (CS) required by the Faculties to be admitted to
their respective majors. This score is calculated by allocating 55% weight to the school averages
of the first two secondary years and 45% to the NDU Math Aptitude Test or SAT Math.
TRANSFER ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
A transfer student is one who, after starting education at one institution of higher education,
seeks admission to another institution with the aim of earning an undergraduate degree.
Students holding the Lebanese Baccalaureate Part II or its equivalence and completing 12
credits at the sophomore level at an institution recognized by the Lebanese Ministry of
Education and Higher Education (MEHE) are eligible to transfer their credits matching courses
at NDU provided they have good academic standing (GPA 2.0/4.0 and above) or its equivalent
in other systems. Students from French/European system universities must successfully
complete all the years up until the end of the current academic year. After submitting the
application, transfer students must provide a recently issued official transcript. Courses graded
“C” or higher are considered for transfer depending on Faculty/Department requirements.
Transfer credits are not computed in the Cumulative GPA but marked as “Transfer.”
Transfer applicants must fill out and pay for the Undergraduate Application form online, then
submit official transcripts of records as well as courses’ descriptions officially issued by the
home university and/or copies of courses’ syllabi to the Office of Admissions.
The deadline for all undergraduate transfer applications conforms to Regular Admission III
session date.
NDU has in place a minimum residency requirement of at least 50% of the total number
of credits required for the different majors offered at NDU. Faculties reserve the right to
accept or reject the transfer of courses.
Students currently enrolled at NDU may transfer credits from another MEHE-recognized
institution of higher education on condition to provide additional inputs within the first
semester of enrollment.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR SECOND DEGREE SEEKERS
Students holding a university degree from an educational institution recognized by MEHE
may apply for a second degree. The Transfer Admission Requirements listed above,
especially the residency requirements, will apply to Second Degree seekers.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who are not working toward a degree are considered Special Students.
Applicants must fill out and pay for the Undergraduate Application form online, then
submit all required documents to the Office of Admissions. To be admitted, applicants
must be undergraduate university-level students or pursuing undergraduate studies at
another institution of higher education. Special status is granted on a semester basis.
Thereafter, students who fulfill all admission requirements, including passing the required
entrance exam(s) when applicable, may petition for “Regular Student Status.”
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR AUDITORS
Students applying as Auditors attend lectures but are not required to submit any coursework or sit
for exams. As such, they do not earn credits for courses completed but are entitled to a statement
of enrollment upon request. Auditors must fill out and pay for the Undergraduate Application
form online, then submit all required documents to the Office of Admissions. Applicants must be
undergraduate university-level students. If not, their files are considered on an individual basis.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR TEACHING DIPLOMA
Applicants holding a bachelor’s degree can apply for the Teaching Diploma in the same
area of specialization or as mandated by the Lebanese Ministry of Education and Higher
Education. All applicants must fill out and pay for the Undergraduate Application form
online, then submit all required documents to the Office of Admissions.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES
NDU employees who request admission to an undergraduate program of study must meet
the admission requirements of the respective Faculty. Employees are considered regular
applicants and must abide by University policies and procedures.
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR FRENCH, INTERNATIONAL, AND
LEBANESE BACCALAUREATE STUDENTS
All applicants must meet the Math proficiency and Composite Score requirements of the
Faculty to be admitted to its respective majors. Accordingly, remedial courses may be
given upon admission.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR FRENCH, INTERNATIONAL, AND LEBANESE BACCALAUREATE STUDENTS
All applicants must meet the Math proficiency and Composite Score requirements of the
Faculty to be admitted to its respective majors. Accordingly, remedial courses may be
given upon admission.

Ramez G. Chagoury, Faculty of Architecture, Arts and Design:
- French Baccalaureate: No specific requirements.
- International Baccalaureate: Applicants to the Bachelor of Architecture are given remedial courses in Math (MAT103) and Physics (PHS101) based on Composite Score.
- Lebanese Baccalaureate: Not specified.

Faculty of Business Administration and Economics:
- French Baccalaureate: No specific requirements.
- International Baccalaureate: One Math remedial course MAT105 may be given depending on Composite Score.
- Lebanese Baccalaureate: Not specified.

Faculty of Engineering:
- French Bac: Must show one Math and one Science from: Physique-Chimie, Sciences de la vie et de la terre, NSI, Sciences de l’ingénieur.
- International Bac: Math at HL, Physics + another Science at SL required. Chemical Eng.: Only Math HL + Chemistry SL.
- Remedial: MAT112 may be given based on Composite Score.

Faculty of Humanities:
- No specific requirements for all baccalaureates.

Faculty of Law and Political Science:
- Applicants must hold Lebanese Baccalaureate or equivalent (French or International).
- Must be of Lebanese nationality.

Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences (French Bac):
- Physics: Math ✓, Physique-Chimie ✓ (else PHS101).
- Computer Science: Math ✓, SVT *.
- Math, CGA, IT, Chemistry, Actuarial Sciences: Math ✓, PC ✓, PC or SVT ✓ (PHS101, BIO101, CHM101 as needed).
- Biology, Biochemistry, Environmental Science: Math ✓, SVT ✓ (BIO101 or CHM101 given).
- MIS: No specific requirements.

Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences (International Bac):
- Math/Actuarial Sciences: Math HL ✓, SL Science ✓ (remedials: PHS101/BIO101/CHM101).
- Physics: Math HL ✓, SL Physics (else PHS101).
- Computer Science: Math HL ✓, HL/SL Science ✓.
- IT, CGA, Chemistry: Math HL ✓, SL Science ✓ (remedials if needed).
- Biology/Biochem/Env Science: Math HL ✓, SL Science ✓ (BIO101/CHM101 as needed).
- MIS: No specific requirements.

Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences (Lebanese Baccalaureate):

Physics:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy: MAT112 and PHS101 are given.

Actuarial Sciences:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy: MAT112 and PHS101 or BIO101 or CHM101 are given.

Mathematics:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy ✓ (MAT112 is given).

Computer Science:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy ✓ (MAT112 and PHS101 or CHM101 are given).

IT, CGA:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy ✓

Chemistry:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy ✓ (MAT112 and BIO101 or CHM101 are given)

Biology, Biochemistry, Environmental Science:
- General Sciences ✓
- Sociology and Economy ✓
- Literature and Humanities: BIO101 or CHM101 is given.

Management Information System:
- All strands ✓

Abbreviations:
- BIO 101: Introduction to Biology
- CHM 101: General Chemistry I
- PHS 101: General Physics I
- MAT 112: Calculus and Analytic Geometry II

ENGLISH PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENTS
All applicants must satisfy a minimum level of English proficiency to be admitted. NDU
recognizes the following tests:
• The English Entrance Test (EET) administered by NDU;
• Test of English as Foreign Language (TOEFL);
• SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing; and
• International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Score.
A student must pass the EET with a minimum score of 60 to be admitted without
remedial English courses.
Below are the required English courses along with their corresponding EET score ranges.
EET Score Ranges Accepted Corresponding English Courses
60 and above Accepted ENL 213 (Sophomore Level)
55 - 59 Accepted ENL 110 (3 credits - Remedial)
50 - 54 Accepted ENL 1051
 (3 credits - Remedial)
40 - 49 Accepted ENL 0022
 (9 credits - Intensive)
A student must pass the TOEFL iBT with a minimum score of 91 to be admitted without
remedial English courses.
Below are the required English courses along with their corresponding internet-based
TOEFL score ranges.
TOEFL iBT Score Ranges Accepted Corresponding English Courses
91 and above Accepted ENL 213 (Sophomore Level)
79 - 90 Accepted ENL 110 (3 credits - Remedial)
69 - 78 Accepted ENL 1051
 (3 credits - Remedial)
54 - 68 Accepted ENL 0022
 (9 credits - Intensive)
 A student must pass the SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing section with a
minimum score of 540 to be admitted without remedial English courses.
Below are the required English courses along with their corresponding SAT EvidenceBased Reading and Writing score ranges.
SAT Evidence-Based Accepted Corresponding English Courses
Reading and Writing Score Ranges
540 and above Accepted ENL 213 (Sophomore Level)
490 – 530 Accepted ENL 110 (3 credits - Remedial)
430 – 480 Accepted ENL 1051
 (3 credits - Remedial)
400 – 420 Accepted ENL 0022
 (9 credits - Intensive)
A student must pass the IELTS with a minimum score of 6.5 to be admitted without
remedial English courses.
Below are the required English courses along with their corresponding IELTS score
ranges.
IELTS Score Ranges Accepted Corresponding English Courses
6.5 and above Accepted ENL 213 (Sophomore Level)
6 Accepted ENL 110 (3 credits - Remedial)
5.5 Accepted ENL 1051
 (3 credits - Remedial)
5 Accepted ENL 0022
 (9 credits - Intensive)

GENERAL ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Applicants must hold the Lebanese Baccalaureate Part II, or its equivalence, as
determined by the Lebanese Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
 Student selection depends on the following assessment tools:
• TOEFL, SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing, IELTS, or EET;
• SAT Math or NDU Math Aptitude Test; and
• Grades of the last Three Years of Secondary School.
Applicants must meet the composite score (CS) requirements of the Faculty to be
admitted to its respective majors. This score is calculated by allocating 55% weight to the
school averages of the first two secondary years and 45% to the NDU Math Aptitude Test
or SAT Math.
FACULTY OF NURSING AND HEALTH SCIENCES (FNHS)
Applicants to BS-Food Safety and Quality Management holding the Baccalaureate Part II
in one of the strands of Social Sciences and Economics or Literature and Humanities or
its equivalent as determined by the Lebanese Ministry of Education and Higher Education
and those holding the International or French Baccalaureate who didn’t take any Math
course in G12/S3 are subject to one Mathematics remedial course upon admission, MAT
111, irrespective of the CS.
TRANSFER: RAMEZ G. CHAGOURY FACULTY OF ARCHITECTURE, ARTS AND DESIGN (FAAD)
The Department of Architecture at the Faculty of Architecture, Arts, and Design at
Notre Dame University accepts transfer students, if places are available, and subject to
the eligibility conditions stipulated in this policy. Transfer credit evaluations follow the
procedures and deadlines as detailed in this policy.
General Requirements
• The home university is a MEHE-recognized institution (local and international).
• Students have completed a minimum of 12 credits at the sophomore level or higher
at their home university.
• Students have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.3/4 or a minimum of 70/100 for
French/European system universities.
• Students applying from French/European system universities must submit an
attestation stating that they have successfully completed the academic year(s)
spent at their home university (نجاح افادة(.
• An official letter affirming good academic and disciplinary standing may be
requested from the home university from which the student is transferring.
• An official statement certifying the number of years spent at the home university
may be requested from the transferring student.
Students from a recognized Department of Architecture:
In addition to the General Requirements above,
• The maximum number of credits that can be considered for transfer must not
exceed 50% of the total number of credits required for the degree of Bachelor of
Architecture at NDU.
Students from Interior Design:
In addition to the General Requirements above,
• A maximum of 20 credits of Major courses may be transferred from Interior Design
as per MEHE decision and NDU rules and regulations, in addition to Liberal Arts
Courses deemed “equivalent” to those required at NDU.
• Students must fulfill a minimum residency requirement of 125 credits.
Students from other majors: In addition to the General Requirements above,
• Students from other majors are considered for transfer on a case-by-case
basis. Additional conditions may hence be required (Math courses, conditional
acceptance, other remedial courses, etc.)
• A maximum of 20 credits of Major courses may be transferred, in addition to
Liberal Arts Courses deemed “equivalent” to those required at NDU.
• Students must fulfill a minimum residency requirement of 125 credits.
Transfer students can receive credit for NDU courses listed under the Core Requirements,
the Liberal Arts Curriculum (LAC), and Free Elective categories of the NDU contract sheet.
Major courses will be considered for transfer on a case-by-case basis depending on
course description, grades, and student’s portfolio.
TRANSFER: FACULTY OF ENGINEERING (FE)
Students holding the Lebanese Baccalaureate Part II in the Sociology and Economics
strand or the Literature and Humanities strand cannot be accepted directly as new
students in the FE. They can, however, transfer to any Engineering major after having
completed the following requirements in other science majors at NDU: a minimum of
12 credits of Mathematics/Physics/Chemistry courses (minimum passing grade of “B”)
at the sophomore level or higher as governed by FE transfer rules in addition to all other
University requirements for transfer between majors.
The Faculty of Engineering at Notre Dame University accepts transfer students, if places
are available, and subject to the eligibility conditions stipulated in these guidelines. The
transfer credit evaluation shall follow the procedures and deadlines as detailed below.
A. Transfer Students from ABET-Accredited Engineering Programs
Transfer students are eligible to be accepted to pursue their studies in one of the majors
in the Faculty of Engineering if they fulfill all the conditions below:
a. They were enrolled in an ABET-accredited program.
b. They have completed a minimum of 12 credits at their institution with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0/4.0 or higher. For students from French or European system universities,
they need to have successfully completed a minimum of one academic year with an
average of 60/100 or higher.
c. They are eligible to continue their studies at their home institution. Students who
are subject to disciplinary actions will not be accepted as transfer students. Official
letters or other documents affirming their good academic and disciplinary standing
as indicated above may be requested from the institution from which the student is
transferring.
d. Students should submit a statement certifying the number of years spent at their
home institution.
Transfer students can receive credits for NDU courses provided they have passed similar
courses with a grade of C or higher at their home institutions.
B. Transfer Students from Officially Recognized Faculties of Engineering
Transfer students are eligible to be accepted to pursue their studies in one of the majors
in the Faculty of Engineering if they fulfill all the conditions below:
a. They were enrolled in a Faculty of Engineering at an officially recognized institution,
i.e., institution approved by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
b. They have completed a minimum of 12 credits at their institution with a cumulative
GPA of 2.7/4.0 or higher. For students from French or European system universities,
they need to have successfully completed a minimum of one academic year with an
average of 70/100 or higher.
c. Same restrictions apply as in A.c and A.d above.
Transfer students can receive credits for NDU courses provided they have passed similar
courses with a grade of B (or 70/100 for students from French or European system universities)
or higher at their home institutions. In order to ensure that the student has achieved the needed
outcomes and Faculty of Engineering objectives specified by the concerned Department, the
Faculty of Engineering reserves the right not to give transfer credits for courses listed under the
Core Requirements, Major Requirements and Major Electives categories at NDU even if the
student has taken similar courses at his/her home institution.
C. Transfer Students from Non-Engineering Majors at Officially Recognized Institutions
The Faculty of Engineering accepts transfer students from science/architecture majors at
officially recognized universities, i.e., universities approved by the Ministry of Education
and Higher Education, provided that:
a. They have completed a minimum of 12 credits of Mathematics/Physics/Chemistry
courses at the sophomore level or higher with a total GPA of 3.0/4.0 minimum.
b. They have a cumulative GPA of 2.7/4.0 or higher. For students from French or
European system universities they need to have successfully completed a minimum
of one academic year with an average of 70/100 or higher.
c. Same restrictions apply as in A.c and A.d above.
Students from non-“science/architecture” majors are not accepted as transfer students.
They can apply as new students; no transfer of credits can be given.
Transfer students can receive credits for NDU courses provided they have passed similar
courses with a grade of B (or 70/100 for students from French or European system
universities) or higher at their home institutions. The Faculty of Engineering reserves
the right not to give transfer credits for courses listed under the Core Requirements
category, even if the student has taken similar courses at his/her home institution. The
courses listed under the Major Requirements and Major Electives categories cannot be
considered unless they were taken in an ABET-accredited program.
Remedial Math Courses
In some selected majors, applicants may be required to take one remedial course in
Mathematics (besides the English remedial course[s]; see above) if, upon evaluating the
application, the student fails to accumulate the minimum composite score required by the
Faculty for admission to its majors.
Below are the selected majors along with their corresponding remedial courses and the
minimum passing grade for each.
REMEDIAL COURSE REQUIREMENTS BY FACULTY AND MAJOR

Ramez G. Chagoury, Faculty of Architecture, Arts and Design:
- Major: Architecture
  - Remedial Courses:
    - MAT 103 (Grade C-)
    - PHS 101 (Grade C-)

Faculty of Business Administration and Economics:
- All Majors
  - Remedial Course:
    - MAT 105 (Grade D)

Faculty of Engineering:
- All Majors
  - Remedial Course:
    - MAT 112 (Grade B)

Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences:

- Biology, Biochemistry, Environmental Science:
  - MAT 101 (Grade D)
  - CHM 101 or BIO 101 (Grade D)

- Information Technology and Computer Graphics and Animation:
  - MAT 105 (Grade D)
  - CHM 101 or PHS 101 or BIO 101 (Grade D)

- Mathematics, Actuarial Sciences:
  - MAT 112 (Grade C-)
  - CHM 101 or PHS 101 or BIO 101 (Grade D)

- Physics:
  - MAT 112 (Grade C-)
  - PHS 101 (Grade C-)

- Chemistry:
  - MAT 112 (Grade D)
  - CHM 101 or PHS 101 or BIO 101 (Grade D)

- Computer Science:
  - MAT 112 (Grade D)
  - One or two from:
    - CHM 101, PHS 101, BIO 101 (Grade D)

- Management Information Systems:
  - MAT 101 (Grade D)

Faculty of Nursing and Health Sciences:

- All Majors:
  - MAT 101 (Grade D)

- Food Safety and Quality Management:
  - MAT 111 (Grade D)

